README GCC                                23 Nov 1999

The "gcc" compiler may be obtained from prep.ai.mit.edu or
other GNU mirror sites.  If you are installing on a SUN with
pre-Solaris operating system, or other machine with non-ANSI
C libraries, you may try installing the GNU (glibc) libraries,
as well, so that "gcc" behaves like a completely ANSI C compiler.
However a couple of users have reported problems when trying
to compile our X-windows materials on SUN using the glibc
libraries. So, it might be best to use GCC without GLIBC installed.

We would appreciate it greatly if users would report their
experiences with the GCC compiler and GLIBC libraries
so we can provide more up-to-date information about porting
our codes on various platforms with this compiler.

Addendum:
The programs "suradon" and "suinterp" will not work unless you
install the codes using GLIBC on SUN.

Update:
Regarding precompiled versions of GCC for SUN products, SU user
Garry Parratt reports:
   "I got both gcc and glibc from the Solaris Porting Project site at
   http://sun.icsnet.com/software/index.html. I guess the latter covered the
   problems you mentioned. All the software comes as binaries in Solaris
   'pkgadd' format so there's no compiling, no hassle, just great software!"

Update 18 Nov 1999: 
Tom Pratt reports:
I took your advice and reinstalled the GCC compiler.  I got 
version 2.8.1  
from:

http://www.sunfreeware.com/programlist.html

and all my problems went away!  This is the same GCC compiler recommended
by Garry Parratt (see your README_GCC in the Portability directory) but
the site name has apparently been changed.  At any rate the site he
recommended sent me here in some manner.  The code is compiling away
flawlessly on the first try!

Addendum: Actually, I ended up using version 2.95.1 of the GCC 
compiler. This includes the fortran compiler, but I had to 
remove the -m486 option in the OPTF card to make it work.


John Stockwell	 | john@dix.Mines.EDU
Center for Wave Phenomena (The Home of Seismic Un*x)
Colorado School of Mines
Golden, CO 80401 | http://www.cwp.mines.edu/cwpcodes
voice: (303) 273-3049  |    fax: (303) 273-3478.
