
Copyright statement:
Copyright (c) Colorado School of Mines, 1994,1995,1996
All rights reserved.


License:
Permission to use, copy, and modify this software for any
purpose and without fee is hereby granted, provided that
the above copyright notice and this permission notice appear
in all copies, and the name of the Colorado School of Mines
(CSM) not be used in advertising or publicity pertaining to
this software without specific, written prior permission.
CSM makes no representations about the suitability of this
software for any purpose. It is provided "as is" without
express or implied warranty.

Disclaimer: 
There are no guarantees, explicit or implicit, made by the
Center for Wave Phenomena, the Colorado School of Mines, or
any member of the aforesaid organizations, past, present,
or future, regarding the accuracy, safety, usefulness, or
any other quality or aspect of this software.


Acknowledgements:

SU stands for Seismic Unix, a processing line developed at
the Colorado School of Mines, partially based on Stanford
Exploration Project (SEP) software.

Shuki Ronen wrote the first draft of what is now called SU
in cooperation with Einar Kjartansson while both were
graduate students at Stanford University.  In turn, some of
the fundamental concepts they implemented were formulated
by their mentor, Jon Claerbout, Director of the Stanford
Exploration Project.  Ronen brought this work to our Center
during a two year stay here and, during this time, aided
Cohen in turning SU into a supportable and exportable product.

Chris Liner, while a student at the Center, wrote most of
the graphics codes used in the pre-workstation (i.e,
graphics terminal) age of SU.  Liner's broad knowledge of
seismology and seismic processing enabled him to make a
positive and continuing influence on the SU coding philosophy.

Dave Hale wrote several of the ``heavy duty'' processing
codes as well as most of the core scientific and graphics
libraries.  His knowledge of good C-language coding practice
helped make our package a good example for applied computer
scientists.

Thanks also to all the CWP students present and past and to
many in the worldwide SU community who have contributed
to the package.
