

   This directory tree contains a variant of SU created by
   Zhiming Li, Rick Ottelini and others. Through the
   generosity of Chevron, these codes have been donated to the
   Colorado School of Mines and the Center for Wave Phenomena for
   general distribution in the hopes that it will prove useful to
   students and research scientists everywhere.

   I provided support for these codes for several years
   after Zhiming Li left. Unfortunately, the code base was
   spread over several directories and lacked clear documentation
   on how and what should be compiled.

   I have made a good faith effort to assemble all the compilable
   codes in a working build environment. However, I have not tested
   the codes to see that they work correctly. In many cases I do
   not even know how to run the codes.

   Over time, I hope that others will help create test cases that
   both verify correct operation and demonstrate how to use the
   codes.

   In addition to the buildable tree under app_su, I have included
   other source code trees that contained code used in SLT/SU.
   There are many duplicates and near duplicates. While I have
   tried to use the correct files in the build, I very likely have
   got it wrong in some cases.

   I have tried very diligently to make certain that no codes have
   been included to which parties other than Chevron and Mines have
   an ownership claim. If you should find an instance where that is
   not true or might not be true, please contact John Stockwell,
   john@dix.mines.edu so that we can correct the matter.

   Finally. everything here is provided AS IS AND WITHOUT WARRANTY
   THAT IT IS USABLE FOR ANY PURPOSE AT ALL. THERE IS NO SUPPORT OF
   ANY KIND. THE USER IS ENTIRELY RESPONSIBLE FOR ANYTHING THAT
   HAPPENS AS A CONSEQUENCE OF USING THIS SOFTWARE.

   That being said, I will attempt to answer reasonable questions to
   the best of my ability, but in many cases I don't know anything
   at all about the code. It's just some stuff I found on a disk
   drive.

   Note: cmovie currently doesn't work on systems where the default
   visual is not 8 bit.

   Reginald H. Beardsley rhb@acm.org

