---------- Sub (0.9) ReadMe ----------

I. Sub, What is:

Sub is a utility that combines a complete, simple procedural language
with convenient support for reading, manipulating, and writing SEGY
binary trace record data streams.  Sub makes it easy for the user to
inspect, report, and modify the contents of a SEGY data stream by
writing simple programs in Sub's internal language.  Sub also supports
efficient trace-oriented manipulation which makes it possible to
perform sophisticated time series processing.

The interpreter and format-specific parts of Sub have been kept
moderately well-separated in order to make it practical to port Sub to
different data formats.  We don't yet have any experience in this
area.

II. Sub, Where is the Documentation for:

The directory UsersGuide contains the troff source for the Sub User's
Guide.  A postscript version is ready in usersguide.ps in that same
directory.

III. Sub, How to Install:

This distribution uses the Gnu configuration utilities but, since I
don't know what I'm doing, only in the crudest way.  To build sub:

	cd to the source directory (probably here)
	./configure
	make (we use gnu make)

When I use Unixware make I sometimes have to invoke it twice to get sub
linked.  Don't know why.

I use -Wall so gcc bitches a little; especially on a sun4.  I think
the complaints all refer to things that are safe.  If everything
works, an executable "sub" will be left in this directory.

If that fails, take a look at VanillaMakefile.  It's set to work on a
sun4 (sunos 4.1?).  It also works by setting "Arch" to "i386" on AT&T V4.2.
Sub is pretty undemanding so you should be able to hack it for most Unix
systems.  VanillaMakefile may be a little out of date,

There are some tests that you can run on sub.

	make check

should do it.  If you have the general-purpose x plotting program, xgraph,
(which is not the same as the one in SU), you can also try

	make xplotcheck

IV: Sub, Who has Suffered on Behalf of:

For patience beyond all reason in the dim prehistory of testing, let
the name
	John Stockwell
remain engraved here forever.  (This is, of course, both a tribute and
a bribe.)

V: Sub, Whose Fault is:

Martin L. Smith   New England Research, Inc.      (802) 296-2401
                  76 Olcott Drive                 (802) 296-8333 fax
martin@ner.com    White River Junction, VT 05001
