README_BEFORE_UNTARRING:  				23 Dec 2005
CWP CODES Release 39

Disclaimer: 
There are no guarantees, explicit or implicit, made by the Center for 
Wave Phenomena, the Colorado School of Mines, or any member of the 
aforesaid organizations, past, present, or future, regarding the accuracy,
safety, usefulness, or any other quality or aspect of this software.

About the CWP/SU codes.
The CWP/SU package is a free software package created
at the Center for Wave Phenomena, Colorado School of Mines.
The package may be viewed as an "instant (exploration) 
seismic research and processing environment" for UNIX-based machines.

The CWP/SU codes are a major part of our day-to-day working environment
here a the Center for Wave Phenomena.  As such, this package 
is different from other free software you will encounter.
Unlike other free packages, the source code is intrinsic
to the operation of the CWP/SU environment. Do not assume that
the source code can be thrown away after the package is compiled.
Plan to keep the source code.


The package contains tools for:
       reading/writing tapes in the SEG-Y format
       manipulating seismic data in the SEG-Y format
       Fourier transforms
       filtering
       synthetic data generation
       seismic migration
       NMO
       DMO
       Wavelet transforms
       Delaunay triangulation
       PostScript Graphics
       X-windows Graphics
	.. etc

What you need to install the codes:
       You will need a machine running the UNIX operating system.
       The code takes up about 50 megabytes after installation
       and compilation. 

The codes have been successfully installed on:
        PC's running LINUX, various SCO Unix, and NeXTSTEP 
	IBM RS6000
	SUN SPARC STATIONS
        Silicon Graphics Systems
	HP 9000 series machines
	HP Apollo 
	NeXT
	Convex
        DEC  

There may be some hacking of the codes required to get the full package
to install.  The DEC and HP installs have not been tested lately.
If you work on either of these platforms, we would greatly appreciate
hearing of your experiences. We don't have access to either of these
platforms, so your suggestions will help extend the portability of the
package.

You will need the compressed tarfiles:

untar_me_first.xx.tar.Z    --- contains README and Portability information
cwp.su.all.xx.tar.Z        --- contains the source code for the release
documentation.xx.tar.Z	   --- 300dpi PostScript version of the SU Users
                               manual and the selfdocumentation listing.	
 
Where xx is the number of the current release.

An incremental update feature has been added for updating Release yy
to Release xx. You will need the files:

update.yy.to.xx.tar.Z
update.list

to do the update this way.
Please read README_UPDATE for further information on performing
the update.

Place the compressed tarfile in the directory path /your/root/path.
The codes will unbundle to form /your/root/path/src.
(We don't mean that you literally put this a directory with the
exact name "/your/root/path", but that you have a convenient
directory location on your system that is convenient with some path name.)

Example of how to uncompress and untar the compressed tarfile:

% zcat cwp.su.all.xx.tar.Z | tar -xvf -

alternately:
% uncompress cwp.su.all.xx.tar.Z
% tar -xvf cwp.su.all.xx.tar

or

% gunzip cwp.su.all.xx.tar.gz
% tar -xvf cwp.su.all.xx.tar

The result will be a directory called "src" in the current working
directory (the directory path you see when you type "pwd")
containing the directory tree of the codes.

Please extract the contents of untar_me_first.xx.tar.Z 
via:

% zcat untar_me_first.xx.tar.Z | tar -xvf -

To extract the documentation:

% zcat documentation.xx.tar.Z | tar -xvf -

% uncompress sumanual.300dpi.letter.ps.Z

The resulting file sumanual.300dpi.ps may is 300 dpi PostScript and
can be printed on most laser printers. Both letter and A4 versions
are provided.

All other files with the form of somename.tar.Z are extracted the
same way.

Please read the README files and the SU Users Manual before attempting
to install the codes.

After you are sure that you want to do the install, then unbundle
the codes distribution via:

% zcat cwp.su.all.xx.tar.Z | tar -xvf -

If you get the error message "zcat - command not found," on a Linux
or FreeBSD system, then this indicates that either your path is
not complete, or you have not completed the installation of the
operating system. Please fix the path information, or finish the
operating system installation before attempting to continue.

John Stockwell	 | john.19071969@gmail.com
Center for Wave Phenomena (The Home of Seismic Un*x)
Colorado School of Mines
Golden, CO 80401 | http://www.cwp.mines.edu/cwpcodes
voice: (303) 273-3049
