This message is to announce the availability of Release 20
(4 July 1993 version) of the CWP/SU 
(CWP Public domain codes and Seismic UNIX) package.


About the CWP/SU codes.
The CWP/SU package is a pubic domain software package created
at the Center for Wave Phenomena, Colorado School of Mines.
The package may be viewed as an "instant (exploration) 
seismic research and processing environment" for UNIX-based machines.

The CWP/SU codes are a major part of our day-to-day working environment
here a the Center for Wave Phenomena.  As such, this package 
is different from other free software you will encounter.
Unlike other public software packages, the source code is intrinsic
to the operation of the CWP/SU environment. Our philosophy is
that cleanly written source code is the best documentation
for a program, so plan to keep the source code.


The package contains tools for:
       reading/writing tapes in the SEG-Y format
       manipulating seismic data in the SEG-Y format
       Fourier transforms
       Radon transforms
       filtering
       synthetic data generation
       seismic migration
       NMO
       DMO
       PostScript Graphics
       X-windows Graphics
	.. etc

What you need to install the codes:
       You will need a machine running the UNIX operating system.
       You will need a C compiler that agrees with ANSI standards
       enough to accept ANSI function prototypes.	

       The code takes up about 8 megabytes after installation
       and compilation.

The codes have been successfully installed on:
	IBM RS6000
	SUN SPARC STATIONS
	HP 9000 series machines
	HP Apollo
	NeXT
	Convex
        DEC

How to get the package: 
       CWP/SU is obtainable
       via anonymous FTP from:  138.67.12.63
       the directory paths is:     pub/cwpcodes	

Files you will need:
README_BEFORE_UNTARRING ----- introductory README file
untar_me_first.20.tar.Z ----- contains additional README files 
					Unbundle_CWP, Portability
cwp.20.tar.Z  --- contains cwp, par directory trees
plot.20.tar.Z --- contains psplot,xplot, Xtcwp, and Xmcwp directory trees
		     depends on cwp and par
su.20.tar.Z   --- contains su directory tree, depends on cwp, and par,
		     also contains codes that interface with psplot,xplot,
		     and Xtcwp codes

Where 20 is the number of the current release.

An incremental update feature has been added for updating Release 19
to Release 20, without doing a complete reinstall. You will need the files:

README_TO_UPDATE
update.19.to.20.tar.Z
update.list

to do the update.



John Stockwell
Center for Wave Phenomena
Colorado School of Mines
Golden, CO 80401

john@dix.mines.colorado.edu
